Enhance/adds nextjs guide (#3482)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/friday/src/get-started/nextjs/_index.md

---
title: Next.js

> description:   Welcome to our quick-start guide on hosting [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on {{< vendor/name >}} where we will demonstrate just how simple it is to host your [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) projects on our PaaS. Follow the steps detailed below and you’ll have everything set up in no time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description:   Welcome to our quick-start guide on hosting [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on {{< vendor/name >}}, where we will demonstrate just how simple it is to host your [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) projects on our PaaS. Follow the steps detailed below and you’ll have everything set up in no time.
```

---

{{% description %}}

Anything included in these guides applies not only to [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), but also to [Express](https://expressjs.com/) and [Strapi](https://strapi.io/).

{{% guides/link-philosophy %}}

> {{< note title=”tip” >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note title=”Tip” >}}
```

To get your Next.js project up and running as quickly as possible, experiment with the [{{% vendor/name %}} demo app](https://console.upsun.com/projects/create-project/demo) before following this guide.
{{< /note >}}

{{% guides/requirements name="Next.js" %}}

## Create your local Next.js app

First things first, if you don’t have a local Next.js project, you need to create a new Next.js project locally by following the official Next.js [installation guide](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started/installation).

> Please refer to all the steps of the official Next.js installation guide for further details, but to sum it up, this is the 4 steps to create a Next.js app locally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to all the steps of the official Next.js installation guide for further details, but to sum it up, here are the 4 steps to create a Next.js app locally:
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
mkdir my-nextjs-app
cd my-nextjs-app
npm install next@latest react@latest react-dom@latest
```

> ## Init your Git repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initialize your Git repository
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
echo "/node_modules" >> .gitignore
echo "/.next" >> .gitignore
git add .gitignore && git commit -m "adding node_modules and .next folder in .gitignore file"
```

## Add a Hello World route

Please create your first Next.js page.
To do so, create a new ``pages/index.tsx`` file at the root of your project. It will contain a basic Hello world script:
```javascript {location="pages/index.tsx"}
export default function Page() {
  return <h1>Hello world, Next.js!</h1>
}
```

Then please commit your file using the following commands:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
git add pages/index.tsx
git commit -m "adding pages/index.tsx first page"
```

## Create a new project

The next step is to create a project on {{% vendor/name %}}.
To do this, you can either use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI or the {{% vendor/name %}} Console.

{{< codetabs >}}
+++
title=Using the CLI
+++
To create a new project with the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI, use the following command and follow the prompt:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} project:create
```

{{< note >}}

> When creating a new project using the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI command `project:create`, you will be asked if you want to set the local remote to your new project. Enter **Yes (y)**.
> Your local source code will be automatically linked to your newly created {{% vendor/name %}} project by creating a `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the corresponding `<projectId>` and set a Git remote to `{{% vendor/cli %}}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a new project using the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI command `project:create`, you will be asked if you want to set the local remote to your new project. Enter **Yes (y)**.

Your local source code will be automatically linked to your newly created {{% vendor/name %}} project by creating a `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the corresponding `<projectId>` and set a Git remote to `{{% vendor/cli %}}`.
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
git remote
{{% vendor/cli %}}
```

If not, please refer to [Set project remote](#set-project-remote) section.
{{< /note >}}

<--->
+++
title=Using the Console
+++

[Create a new project from scratch]({{% vendor/urlraw "console" %}}/projects/create-project/).

> If you do not already have an organization created to put the project, you'll first be instructed to create one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not already have an organization created to put the project in, you'll first be instructed to create one.
```

Once you have done so, select that organization from the dropdown, and select **Create from scratch**.

In the form, fill in details like the project name and [region](/development/regions.md).
You'll be able to define resources for the project after your first push.

> After creating a project with the console, you need to let the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI know which linked project you want to deploy to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a project with the Console, you need to let the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI know which linked project you want to deploy to.
```

> To do so, use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to set remote project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to set a remote project:
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} project:set-remote <projectId>
```

This command will add a new remote called `{{% vendor/cli %}}` to your local Git repo as you can see below:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
git remote
origin
{{% vendor/cli %}}
```

> It will also create a new `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the given `<projectId>`, to store this info for the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will also create a new `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the given `<projectId>`, to store this information for the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI interaction.
```

{{< note >}}
If you don’t remember your `<projectId>` from the previous steps, you can get it back using this command line and select the one you created:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} project:list
```
{{< /note >}}

{{< /codetabs >}}

## Choose your Git workflow

> {{% vendor/name %}} projects can be used as a classic Git repository where you will be able to push your source code in different ways using either Git CLI or {{% vendor/name %}} CLI. You can choose which way—or Git workflow—you would like to use for your project from the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% vendor/name %}} projects can be used as a classic Git repository where you will be able to push your source code in different ways, using either the Git CLI or the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI. You can choose which way—or Git workflow— you would like to use for your project from the following options:
```

- Your project source code will be **hosted on a {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository**
- Your project source code will be **hosted on your own GitHub repository**

{{< codetabs >}}
+++
title={{% vendor/name %}} Git repository
+++

> For the rest of this guide, you will use the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to commit your source code changes to Git history, and use {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to deploy your [{{% vendor/name %}} environment](/environments.html) with latest code updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the rest of this guide, you will use the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to commit your source code changes to Git history, and use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to deploy your [{{% vendor/name %}} environment](/environments.html) with the latest code updates.
```

<--->
+++
title=GitHub repository
+++
{{% vendor/name %}} provides a feature called [Github integration](integrations/source/github.md) that allows your {{% vendor/name %}} project to be fully integrated with your Github repository.

> Enabling you, as a developer, to use a normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to deploy your environment—with no need to connect to the {{% vendor/name %}} console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables you, as a developer, to use a normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to deploy your environment—with no need to connect to the {{% vendor/name %}} Console.
```

{{< note >}}
Please make sure you that you have already completed the following steps before adding a [Github integration](integrations/source/github.md):

1. Create a Git repository in your own organization following the relevant [Github repository creation guide](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-new-repository).
2. Create a [Github integration](integrations/source/github.md).

> 3. Add a Git remote to your local project, from the root of your Next.js directory, by inputting the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a Git remote to your local project, from the root of your Next.js directory, by inputting the following:

```

    ```bash {location="Terminal"}
    git remote add origin <urlOfYourOwnGitHubRepo>
    git add . && git commit -m "init next.js"
    git push origin
    ```
{{< /note >}}

{{< /codetabs >}}

## Configure your project

To be able to host your Next.js application on {{% vendor/name %}}, some YAML configuration files are needed at the root of your project to manage the way your application will behave.

> These YAML configuration files are located into a .{{% vendor/cli %}}/ folder at the root of your source code, the architecture of which will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These YAML configuration files are located into a `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/` folder at the root of your source code, the architecture of which will look like this:
```

✓ Detected dependency managers: Npm
Tell us your project name: [app]

                       (\_/)
We’re almost done...  =(^.^)=

Last but not least, unless you’re creating a static website, your project uses services. Let’s define them:

Select all the services you are using: []

You have not selected any service, would you like to proceed anyway? [Yes]

┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│   CONGRATULATIONS!                                │
│                                                   │
│   We have created the following files for your:   │
│     - .environment                                │
│     - .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml                          │
│                                                   │
│   We’re jumping for joy! ⍢                        │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │ /
         │/
         │
  (\ /)
  ( . .)
  o (_(“)(“)

You can now deploy your application to {{% vendor/name %}}!
To do so, commit your files and deploy your application using the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI:
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m 'Add {{% vendor/name %}} configuration files'
  $ {{% vendor/cli %}} push
```

> {{< note >}}
> In this first step guide, we don't add any services yet. </br>
> Please add any services that you want to use with your Next.js application.</br>
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We haven't added any services yet, but you can do so now.
```

      nodejs:
        sharp: "*"
#{{< code-link destination="/add-services.html#available-services" text="services" title="Click to get Full list of available services." >}}:
#  db:
#    type: postgresql:14
{{< code-link destination="/define-routes.html" text="routes" title="Each route describes how an incoming URL is going to be processed. Click for more information" >}}:
  "https://{default}/":
    type: upstream
    upstream: "app:http"
  # A basic redirect definition
  # More information: {{% vendor/url_doc %}}/define-routes.html#basic-redirect-definition
  "https://www.{default}/":
    type: redirect
    to: "https://{default}/"
```

Then commit your new files, using the following command:

```bash {location="Terminal"}
git add .environment .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml
git commit -m "{{% vendor/name %}} config files"
```

[//]: # (TODO this entire section should not exist and be remove in favor of adding this new build hook command in the project:init)
## Build your Next.js application

> Next.js application needs be built during [build hook](/create-apps/app-reference.html#build-hook). To do so, edit your `.{{% vendor/cli%}}/config.yaml` file with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Next.js application needs to be built during the [build hook](/create-apps/app-reference.html#build-hook). To do so, edit your `.{{% vendor/cli%}}/config.yaml` file with the following configuration:
```

```yaml {location=".{{% vendor/cli%}}/config.yaml"}
applications:
  app:
    {{< code-link destination="/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks" text="hooks" title="Hooks allow you to customize your code/environment as the project moves through the build and deploy stages. Click for more information" >}}:
      {{< code-link destination="/create-apps/app-reference.html#build-hook" text="build" title="The build hook is run after any build flavor.. Click for more information" >}}: |
        set -eux
        npm i
        npm exec next build
```

Then commit your new files, using the following command:

```bash {location="Terminal"}
git add .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml
git commit -m "build Next.js app during build hook"
```

> ## Set project remote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set your project remote
```

{{< note >}}
If you used the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI command `{{% vendor/cli %}} project:create` to create your project and your local Git repo has already been initialized, your local source code should already contain a ``.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml`` file. This file contains your `projectId`, and you already have a Git remote repository set to `{{% vendor/cli %}}`.
You can jump to [deploying your project](#deploy).
{{< /note >}}

> There are slightly different ways to link your local project to your {{% vendor/name %}} project based on the Git workflow you chose for you project as discussed earlier in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are slightly different ways to link your local project to your {{% vendor/name %}} project based on the Git workflow you chose for you project, as discussed earlier in this guide.
```

{{< codetabs >}}
+++
title={{% vendor/name %}} Git repository
+++

> If you host your Next.js source code on an {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository, and you failed to answer `y` (yes) to the question `Set the new project <projectName> as the remote for this repository? [Y/n]` during the ``project:create`` command, you need to let the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI know which linked project you want to deploy to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you host your Next.js source code on an {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository, and you failed to answer `y` (yes) to the question `Set the new project <projectName> as the remote for this repository?` at the ``project:create`` step, you need to let the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI know which linked project you want to deploy to.
```

> To do so, use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to set remote project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, use the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to set a remote project:
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} project:set-remote <projectId>
```

This command will add a new remote called `{{% vendor/cli %}}` to your local Git repo as you can see below:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
git remote
{{% vendor/cli %}}
...
```

> It will also create a new `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the given `<projectId>`, to store this info for the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will also create a new `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/local/project.yaml` file that will contain the given `<projectId>`, to store this information for the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI interaction.
```

{{< note >}}
If you don’t remember your `<projectId>` from the previous steps, you can get it back using this command line and select the one you created:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} project:list
```
{{< /note >}}

<--->
+++
title=GitHub repository
+++
{{% guides/whitelabel/git_integration git="GitHub" stack="Next.js" %}}
<--->
+++
title=Gitlab repository
+++
{{% guides/whitelabel/git_integration git="Gitlab" stack="Next.js" %}}
<--->
+++
title=Bitbucket repository
+++
{{% guides/whitelabel/git_integration git="Bitbucket" stack="Next.js" %}}

{{< /codetabs >}}

## Deploy

And just like that, it’s time to deploy!

> Depending on the Git workflow you choose at the beginning of this tutorial, there are two ways to deploy your source code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the Git workflow you chose at the beginning of this tutorial, there are two ways to deploy your source code changes.
```

{{< codetabs >}}

+++
title=Using {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository
+++

> When using the {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository as your main repository, you can push your code using the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to push your source code changes to your `{{% vendor/cli %}}` remote repository. Alternatively, you can use the following  {{% vendor/name %}} CLI command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the {{% vendor/name %}} Git repository as your main repository, you can push your code using the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`). This pushes your source code changes to your `{{% vendor/cli %}}` remote repository. Alternatively, you can use the following  {{% vendor/name %}} CLI command:
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
{{% vendor/cli %}} push
```

<--->
+++
title=Using third-party Git repository
+++

> When using an external Git repository (Github, Gitlab, or Bitbucket) to store your source code and having the Git integration feature enabled, on each code updates, you will need to use the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to push your code to your external repository. To do so, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using an external Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket) to store your source code and having the Git integration feature enabled, on each code updates, you will need to use the normal Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to push your code to your external repository. To do so, run the following command:
```

```bash {location="Terminal"}
git push origin
```

> Your Github/Gitlab/Bibucket integration process will then automatically create a new environment if you’re pushing a new Git branch, and deploy changes to your corresponding environment.
> {{< /codetabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your GitHub/GitLab/Bibucket integration process will then automatically create a new environment if you’re pushing a new Git branch, and deploy changes to your corresponding environment.
{{< /codetabs >}}
```

| App or service        | Size    | CPU     | Memory (MB) | Disk (MB) | Instances |
+-----------------------+---------+---------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
| app                   | not set | not set | not set     | N/A       | 1         |
+-----------------------+---------+---------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
```
The first question is what profile size you want applied to your application image. For now let's select the minimum `0.1`:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
App: app
Choose a profile size:
  [0.1 ] CPU 0.1, memory 64 MB
  [0.25] CPU 0.25, memory 128 MB
  [0.5 ] CPU 0.5, memory 224 MB
  [1   ] CPU 1, memory 384 MB
  [2   ] CPU 2, memory 704 MB
  [4   ] CPU 4, memory 1216 MB
  [6   ] CPU 6, memory 1728 MB
  [8   ] CPU 8, memory 2240 MB
  [10  ] CPU 10, memory 2688 MB
 > 0.1
```
Next it will ask how many instances of our application container we need deployed. For now let's go with `1`:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
Enter the number of instances (default: 1): 1
```

Next it will ask what is the necessary disk size for our application container. For now let's go with `512`:
```bash {location="Terminal"}
Enter a disk size in MB: 512
```

> Last it will ask us to confirm our choices. Select `Y` and the {{% vendor/name %}} will take your selections, grab the
> previous built images from early, apply our resource selections to them and deploy our full application!

Reviewer: ### 
```suggestion
Last it will ask us to confirm our choices. Select `Y` and {{% vendor/name %}} will take your selections, grab the
previous built images from earlier, apply your resource selections to them and deploy your full application!
```

Note that each environment has its own domain name.

> To open the url of your new environment, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open the URL of your new environment, run the following command:
```

   ```bash {location="Terminal"}
   {{% vendor/cli %}} environment:url --primary
   ```

{{< note >}}

> Resources allocation is only done on the first deploy of a project. </br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource allocation is only done on the first deploy of a project. </br>
```

For next deployments, just use:

> ```shell {location="terminal"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell {location="Terminal"}
```
